we are here in Omaha Nebraska this
morning with Warren Buffett the chairman
and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway
he's just released his 55th annual
shareholder letter to to the
shareholders over this weekend and this
is actually the 13th year that we are
now in Omaha talking to him after that
letter this is a show that we call ask
Warren so that people can write in their
own questions to mr. Buffett after
they've read that shareholders letter
but obviously this morning given the
news there are a lot of other questions
that people have concerning the stock
market let's jump right into it with mr.
Buffett who is here with us right now
and Warren thank you for being here
today I want to talk about the letter
obviously one of the things that you
touch on in the level on the letter is
when people should be buying stocks
we're gonna dig into a lot of it but
when you're looking at the futures down
about 818 points this morning I think
probably the first thing viewers want to
hear from you are your thoughts on
what's happening with the coronavirus if
this is a reason to panic and if you are
worried about this well I I don't know I
have any special thoughts be on the news
on the coronavirus the very first day I
bought stocks was March 12th 1941 40 40
42 and the stocks were down about 2%
that day as it turned out unfortunately
I bought in the morning so when I came
home with the evening and my dad told me
the execution price it was down 2% if
you're buying a business and and that's
what stocks are businesses in fact
people would be better off if they say I
bought a business today not a stock
today because that gives a different
perspective on it then presumably good
then people buy a farm if you buy
apartment house if you buy a business
you're gonna own it for 10 or 20 or 30
years and the real question is this has
the ten year or 20 year outlook for for
American businesses changed in the last
24 hours or 48 hours and we're gonna
you'll notice many of the businesses we
own partially owned American Express we
voted for 20 years coca-cola we've owned
it for 40 years with those our
businesses and you know buy or sell your
business based on on on today's
headlines and if it gives you a chance
to buy something that you like and you
can buy it even cheaper then it's your
good luck basically although there are a
lot of people who look at the market and
they say
look I want to buy but I don't want to
buy when the markets sitting at new
highs when it's been hitting new records
every day
maybe it's off 800 points this morning
but maybe there's more of a decline to
come because the effect of the
coronavirus is going to be an impact on
the global economy IMF said that over
the weekend you are going to see
weakness as not only China but other
countries try and address this you're
right it may not change things over the
five or ten year span of things but if I
think that I can buy something for
potentially ten percent cheaper maybe
more than that if I wait a week or a
month maybe that's what I'm sitting
around well if you think that then
you've got it you're gonna get
fabulously rich if you're right just
keep buying at ten day intervals people
take your 10 day prediction if I knew
what the market was gonna obviously but
you don't I don't think anybody knows
what the market is going to do I think
you do know whether you're making an
intelligent person the purchase at a
given price everybody when they buy a
stock if you're gonna buy say General
Motors it has a billion four hundred
million shares out you should be able to
take a yellow pad like you have there
and on one page say let's say it's
selling for thirty it isn't something
that low but that'd be 42 billion you
should say I am buying the General
Motors company for forty two billion
dollars because and you should get it on
a piece of paper and then if you want to
have a Shepherd piece of paper since I
think I know what the stock market is
going to do so I know whether it'll be
higher or lower but you don't you don't
have that I worry that the economy is
going to slow down not just for the
quarter but for the year that would
impact how many cars I think they might
be able to sell or even produce cars are
going to slow down someday yeah in 1932
General Motors had 19,000 dealers that's
more than all the auto dealers in the
United States today they're only other
than 25 million people that but they had
19,000 dealers they produced or sold and
there was one month I think when they
sold less than a tenth of a car right at
1/10 of a car per dealer that was a
terrific time to buy General Motors
forget about the bargain if you can
pretty good market
you don't read balance sheet on it
he certainly can't predict the market by
reading the daily newspaper that is for
sure and you really can't you certainly
can't predict the market by listening to
me but you're buying businesses and if
you plan to buy a local service station
yesterday and it was closing today I
don't think you'd tear your hair out or
anything like that you don't already
looked at where it was located and the
contract that had with the suppliers and
made a decision on competition people
because they can make decisions every
second in stocks whereas they can't with
farms they think an investment in stocks
is different than an investment in a
business or an investment in the farm or
investment or an apartment house but it
isn't that if you get your money's worth
in terms of future earning power over
the next 10 or 20 or 30 years you're
gonna made a good investment and you
can't pick them from day to day I
couldn't do that you can well I haven't
met anybody yet that knows how to do it
you you made a point of that in the
letter this year where you highlighted a
book that was written by Edgar Lawrence
Smith back in 1924 and you said until he
came along nobody really realized the
compound interest effect of buying
stocks not just buying businesses but
buying stocks themselves
Edgar Lorenz haveth changed the world
with that book and if people have
forgotten all about it now although in
the 1920s it would it became more and
more gospel as the boom went on but
girls myth set ought to write a book on
bonds versus stocks and he said if he
went in with the idea the bonds would be
a better investment in times of
deflation and stocks would be a better
investment times of inflation and the
first line of his book was to say that
he'd been wrong but he had enough sense
to look at his evidence on it I think
Darwin said if you found evidence that
was contrary to what you already
believed write it down in 30 minutes or
you're black your mind will just block
it out I mean people have a great
resistance to new evidence and he said
if a stock yields 4% of bond yields 4%
which was what he was talking about then
the stock was going to outperform the
bonds because there were retained
earnings that were building beyond that
he'll
that's that has been true for a long
long time but nobody paid any attention
to it oh we don't get rich on our
dividends that we receive all the way
happy to receive them we get rich on on
the fact that the retained earnings are
used to build new earning power
repurchase shares which increases your
ownership in the company and and and
Berkshire is retained earnings ever
since we started that's the only reason
Berkshires worth a lot more as we retain
earnings that that led Keynes to
actually say that this was an important
book people paid attention to it but
you're right it added to the frenzy that
built up to 1929 well that is true
because you can get my old boss Ben
Graham totally very early on you get
more trouble with a good idea than a bad
idea because the good idea works I mean
it's a good idea to buy a home for
example and then people go crazy
sometimes a good idea works and it works
and it works
stocks work out better than bonds most
of the time and after a while people
forget that there were some other
limiting conditions with Edgar Lorne
Smith's book it was that when bonds
yield the same as Sox which was the case
then the stocks are going to outperform
because they have this retain earnings
so stocks started going up in the 20s
and all of a sudden they were selling it
five or six times the prices as when he
bought the book and the original correct
perception on his part had experienced
changing conditions but people just
looked they got their confirmations for
the stock prices and people that's what
happens in ball markets people people
start out thinking stocks are cheap and
then they start thinking stocks have
gone up and and the stock can be a good
buyer a bad buy a bond can be a good
buyer bad buy it depends on price but
that leads us to today I mean if his
premise was that stocks are always going
to be a better better investment than
bonds that's kind of what you hear today
which we've been hearing for a while is
Tina there is no alternative right you
have to buy stocks because bond yields
are so low because interest rates are so
low well if you look at the present
situation we've talked about this before
that you get more for your money in
stocks than bonds
that doesn't have to be the case I mean
but it's usually been the case in
America very usually been the case and
if you buy a 30-year bond today with the
yield 2% you're paying 50 times earnings
for an investment where the earnings
can't go up for 30 years now if somebody
said I want to sell you the stuff is it
50 times or easy or you can go up for 30
years you say that doesn't sound very
good it's not sure way better than
30-year bonds I mean it's that's clear
and and that's one of the alternatives
people have people really have three
basic alternative short-term cash which
is an option of doing something later on
long-term bonds or long term stocks and
stocks are cheaper than bonds Charlie
said recently Charlie Munger the
vice-chairman at Berkshire Hathaway had
his daily journal meeting just a couple
of weeks ago and at that meeting he said
that there's a lot of wretched excess
out there and that there's a lot of
trouble coming as a result do you agree
with that there's always trouble coming
yeah there was trouble coming in 1942
when I bought that first stock all kinds
of trouble Philippines were gonna fall
pretty soon I mean there's all kinds of
trouble in 1949 there was trouble
certainly trouble in 2008 when I wrote
an article for the New York Times I said
trouble is coming but I said buy stocks
would you repeat that this time if
troubles coming would you still say buy
stocks right now I would say buy stocks
if you get enough for your money and you
know we buy a few stocks but we don't
look at we're not buying the stock
market we're saying I am buying say
American Express we own American Express
there's 800 15 million shares out
insulted this morning 126 or something
like that so it's selling for roughly a
hundred billion dollars now the real
question is whether the company's worth
more or less than hundred billion it
isn't what the stock is gonna do
tomorrow or next week or next month you
said just a few minutes ago when we
asked you on worldwide exchange right
now Berkshire Hathaway has a net buyer
of stocks you are in a net buying
because we've been in that buyer of
stocks or I've been actually been a
personal net buyer stocks ever since I
was 11 every year and
there's been 15 American presidents in
my lifetime more than a third
I've lived under a third of the line I
didn't buy stock senator Hoover I was
only about six months old in but but
there been seven Republicans after that
and seven Democrats I bought stocks
under every one of them now I'm what
stocks every day there have been a few
times I've thought stocks were we're
really quite high and have even written
an article once or twice up but that's
very seldom but you wrapped up your
partnership at once I wrapped up my
partnership because it was too expensive
yeah okay but this is not a time like
that we own two hundred and forty
billion dollars worth of socks now we
look at that as two hundred and forty
billion dollars worth of businesses that
we all parts up but I love owning those
businesses you've also got more than one
hundred and twenty five billion dollars
in cash sitting around yeah well we'd
like to buy more businesses we are here
Warren with you
at Berkshire Hathaway's headquarters
building this is upstairs in the room
that's called the cloud room and this is
a room where you often take students to
kind of talk to them about questions
they have when they come to visit you
you also do some other things up here
too other presentations yeah I had
students here for dozens of years and
for many years 40 schools would come in
they'd come in groups of eight five days
I'd spend a year and they come from all
the world we haven't from Peru Leon from
China and from Israel and we had a good
time all he said again I've given it up
now I but I started teaching when I was
21 and I when I got to about 88 I
thought I take a rest well there are a
lot of questions that are coming in from
viewers that have been hitting here
today they're waking up this morning
looking at the stock market indicated
down by almost 800 points for the Dower
actually off our worst levels of the
morning which is something to say when
you're still looking at the Dow down by
about 786 points but people have a lot
of questions about the economy they were
wondering what's happening right now
particularly with the coronavirus out
there you have a lot of economic data at
your fingertips because not only on the
many businesses that Berkshire owns but
the businesses you own pieces in what
are you seeing right now around the
globe well it affects various businesses
on
I would I would say that I received
commentary I get some commentary monthly
but from from almost all of the
companies and and a good many of them
had some comment about I was affecting
them and however it was affecting them
that at that time I'm sure it's
accentuated but they've been affected by
a were affected by terrorists are
affected by taxes they're affected by
the most thing is they're affected by
competitors in supply and demand over
time and I don't have the faintest idea
what our businesses will be doing six
months from now or twelve months from
now I do think that not only our
businesses but American business
generally we doing fabulously better
thirty years from our twenty years now
and the the long term is very in my view
is very easy to predict in the general
way but an important way I don't think
there's any way to predict what the
stock market will do ten minutes from
now ten days from now or ten months from
now so I work on what I think I am able
to do and as desirable as it might be to
know what was gonna happen ten minutes
from now that's just not something I'll
ever be able to master so fortunately I
can come to a pretty firm conclusion
that 20 or 30 years from now America's
business and probably over the world
will be far better than it is now what
are the momentary implications that
you've seen from coronavirus what's an
example of a business well an example
who's not we have maybe a thousand Dairy
Queen franchises in China here and there
just treat only so they're they're the
old older type not with food but a great
number of them were closed but the ones
that were open we're doing any business
to speak of and an apple is it what I
mean are much bigger holding as Apple
will and 5.6 percent of Apple and and
and the company came out and said that
it's affecting not only its stores but
all kinds of things supply chain and I
find that certain of our companies have
got supply chain arrangements that are
being affected by this that I didn't
even know had those like what well I got
one from Johns Manville the other day
for example you wouldn't normally think
of them as having a big supply chain but
Shaw carpenter you name it I'll
guarantee you that a very significant
percentage of our business is one layer
affected
but they're being affected by a lot of
other things too and the real question
is is where are those businesses going
to be in five or ten years they'll have
ups and downs our candy business is a
wonderful business but it loses money
seven months out of the year but the
nice thing is Christmas comes every year
when you look at the economy and how
things were kind of chugging along let's
say beginning of this year yeah when
first things things first picked up but
how would you gauge the US economy well
it's it's strong but a little softer
than it was six months ago but that's
over a broad range of business you look
at car loadings rail car loadings that
that's moving goods around and there
again that was affected by the tariffs
too because people front ended purchases
all kinds of things always a lot of
variables but business is down and and
but it's down from a very good level so
I would say that looking at our seventy
businesses and that actually they
represent hundreds in addition they're a
little softer and then and I was out
with the fellows from Nebraska Furniture
Mart just Saturday night and their
business was up quite a bit in February
but that's because weather was good so
you have a lot of variables that hit why
do you think business was down let's say
the last six months is that a decline in
confidence or is it coming off of levels
where there was unusual activity ahead
of that well it wasn't really down it's
just the level off and the little softer
may be now but well tariffs the tariff
situation was a big question mark for
all kinds of companies and and still is
to some degree but that that was front
and center for a while now coronaviruses
front and center day something else be
front and center six months from now and
a year from now in two years from now
real question is is where you're where
these business is gonna be five and ten
and twenty years now someone will do
sensationally some will mold disappear
and overall I think America will do very
well you know it has in 1776 but you
still watch things like railcar look
very close i watch everything but i
don't do it to make in specific
investment decisions I but I enjoy I
mean
I don't know what's going on but I also
don't think that I can make money by
predicting what's gonna go on next week
or next month I do think I can make
money by predicting what's gonna happen
in ten years all right we'll tell us
more about what's going on just since
you like knowing about that as I said
you know the certain businesses depend
on whether to quite an extent in retail
for example in given months but the big
trends you see are going on I mean in
terms of the movement to online commerce
and I mean the big stuff keeps moving
but we've got to make an investment
airline business and I just heard you
know even more flights are canceled and
all that but flights are canceled for
weather this all happens in this case
they're going to cancel them for longer
because of coronavirus but if you own
Airlines for 10 or 20 years you're gonna
have some ups and downs in current
business and some of the weather-related
they can be all kinds of things the real
question is is you know how many
passengers they can be carrying ten
years from now in 15 years now and what
will margins be and what was the
competitive position be and but I still
look at the figures all the time I'll
admit that you you mentioned the
airlines and you own stakes and all the
major airlines but not as much as Delta
I think you own or north of 11% of
dortmund Delta at this point well right
you know the largest position is in
Delta three of the four positions
they're mine one of the positions is one
of the other fellows of the four
positions but we own a very roughly ten
close to ten percent of the four largest
airlines there's been a lot of
speculation in fact some of the
questions that came in over this weekend
were questions about those airlines
wondering if you would buy any of them
outright have you considered buying any
of those companies I'd be very unlikely
we would do that I'm not saying it's
impossible but it's complicated why well
for one thing they're regulated and
there's an interplay I'll just give you
an example not that would be doing but
with Delta we own 18% of American
Express
an emergency press is a bank holding
company and bank holding companies have
limits as to what they can do and we're
a passive holder of a bank holding
company with American Express but if we
owned an airline that was tied up with
them they have lots of arrangements
there's there's there's a lot of
complications because it's a regulated
industry anytime get in a regulated
industry you have more complications in
and and and transactions so is it fair
to say you like these stocks and you
would own more if it didn't if it wasn't
complicated
well we if to go beyond 15% in any
company we would have to go in on
hart-scott-rodino I mean there's a lot
of rules as you increase your ownership
obviously almost anything we own
we'd like to own more of are you buying
more of any of those stakes right now I
get pretty close mouth when it comes to
what we're buy to say that anything that
we own we like you know and there's very
few stocks that we own and I look at
them as part ownership sand businesses
there there's very few that are selling
at some price where I would sell them a
little higher all right well let me ask
a question that came from Tony Dickinson
he said in the fourth quarter Berkshire
sold 55 million shares of Wells Fargo
should shareholders view this as a lack
of confidence in the new CEO turnaround
planned and what is Warren's future
outlook for Wells Fargo well I won't
give many advice specifically on was
Fargo but it's absolutely true that
we've sold down our position some of it
was sold down to avoid being over 10%
because then you do have some filings
with the feds and so on but more than
that's asked yeah we've sold we've sold
well more than that I think 8.4 percent
was the last yeah that sounds right and
and now we leave we've sold at least all
Wells Fargo in the fourth quarter and we
sold earlier can I ask why only because
I did get a number of questions yeah
well I can understand that but but
we just don't we don't want to give any
advice on what we're doing because I
could change what I'm doing tomorrow no
no we we talk about everything except we
don't give stock advice I try one more
folks Dickinson just because I think I
got 15 or 20 different questions on this
Berkshire owns 30 to 0.58 billion of
Bank of America and 17.3 9 billion of
Wells Fargo 1 positions been increasing
while the others been decreasing there's
Warren like Bank of America twice as
much as Wells Fargo and how should
shareholders me the whole day yeah well
I think they seen that we bought we
bought Bank of America we sold some
Wells Fargo all right let me ask you a
broader question that comes in just on
interest rates or the impact that that
might have as well Varun Jane writes in
on Facebook hi I'm a huge fan and a
student of mr. Buffett please ask him
what impact does the zero interest rate
environment to cross places like Japan
and Europe have on their banks whether
the business is still good and does the
prolonged low interest rate regime in
the United State hurt the prospects of
American banks like JP Morgan etc and in
such circumstances do Indian banks which
have high return on equity look
attractive to mr. boffin
I can't comment on that but generally
speaking with a lot of it but there's a
lot of other variables too but the banks
are going to make more money if there's
if there are higher rates with a with a
steeper curve there's a curve makes is
more important than in other words the
10-year versus short term rates may make
more difference than the absolute level
but American banks have made very good
money with very low interest rates
around the world if you look in the UK
or Europe or Japan even lower rates have
made it pretty tough for banks the
returns on equity or not is high and
they have to use more leverage they even
get the same returns and I don't like
that as well
if you are talking about the curve that
we're looking at this morning the five
year to year is inverted then it's not
right now but the ten years below 1.4
percent this morning and think about the
ten year at 14.4% that means you're
paying 70 times earnings for for
something that can't increase its
earnings for ten years they say we can
do with a stock and said you know we
this is a terrific stock it sells 270
times earnings the earnings can't go up
for ten years yeah yeah you'd say well
explain that it took me again right but
no the interest that we've never seen a
situation like this in the world
literally I mean you can go back and
read Keynes and you can read Adam Smith
and you can read you know all the great
ones and they don't talk about negative
entropy and never cost there might have
a supply in the band all these a
marginal costs but brilliant economists
never really anticipated that you would
have negative you've got 13 trillion or
something like that
worldwide of negative interest rates and
we don't know what that means and if
we've got a lot of people to speculate
what it means but 10 years from now or
15 years will from now we'll look back
and say well it's obvious what we'll
we'll see it but it is not a normal
situation and it's it's a well interest
rates are the basis of all value I mean
you know that if if you knew interest
rates we're gonna be zero for a hundred
years you would think one percent was a
great rate return but you also would
know if you want something was yielding
one percent or that was what a bate and
rates went to eight percent you'd lose
practically all your capital so it's an
enormous factor and we don't know the
answer central banks don't know the
answer all we know is that it it's been
useful in stimulating things and
particularly asset prices now for ten
years and what we thought was temporary
in 2008 and nine in the way of monetary
policy to stimulate we've just put our
foot on the gas even further the whole
world has you made a point in the letter
of saying that you don't know how long
these interest rates will last you and
Charlie never trying to figure these
things out but we did have st. Louis Fed
president Jim Bullard on the program
last week and he said that he expects to
see these low interest rates for a long
time to come that does raise a lot of
questions
that happens about what this means for
the stock market what that means for
banks what that means for insurance
companies what you touched on in the
letter - it's bad for insurance
companies but but it's good for stocks
bad for insurance companies and what
happens to insurance companies as a
result are they getting more insurance
company except those ones that really
get hurt on our are either life or
annuity companies that have promised
returns the property casualty business
doesn't promise returns it still holds
money so it hurts them but if you
promise somebody an annuity that's
closer to pay them three or four percent
and now you find that you're reinvesting
your money at one percent or something
you know you're going to disappear our
insurance company is being forced to
make riskier and riskier bets well they
shouldn't I mean the answer if if you
need you get three percent and you're
only getting one percent the answer is
to quit giving three percent it's not to
try and get the one up to three and do
more dangerous thing you should always
adapt your consumption to your income
you shouldn't try and adjust your income
to your consumption that's a basic
principle for individuals businesses and
everything else and reaching for yield
is really stupid but it's very human I
mean and I understand it and people say
well I've saved all this money on my
life and I can only get 1% on what do I
do
the answer is you learn to live on 1%
unfortunately and and you don't go and
listen to some salesman come along and
tell you I've got some magic way to get
you 5% do you think though that that's
what should be happening do you think
that there is more risk taking place in
the intra market and you see that and
you see that in what they call leveraged
loans and weaker covenants at all no
people are reaching for yield there's no
question about that and that's stupid
and it has consequences over time but
it's very human consequences that could
have a big market impact that's how far
it goes yeah yeah it's the it's it's
something that the things that get
billed and slowly people going crazy and
and tech companies in the late 1990s it
can take a lot longer than you think but
eventually you get to midnight and
everything turns to pumpkins and mice
you know that's the downside of yellow
interest rates pensions savers anybody
who gets left in a raw position of that
on the alternate side of things if rates
were to rise rapidly or not you maybe
not even so rapidly what does that mean
for the federal debt well it depends on
the average maturity of the debt but our
maturities are fairly short they've
gotten lengthened a little but but if
you take 22 trillion or and and you're
borrowing at a 2% you've got you got 400
what have you got a dude who's really
until 200 billion I mean you have 40
billion of the expense but if it goes to
5% you gotta billion of expense I mean
it I know what 5% you got you got a
trillion of expense I'm sorry it's we
are benefiting enormous Lee in our
national budget by the fact that
interest rates are very low and and so
interest cost has not gone up as you
would have anticipated if you were
looking at the scene 20 or 30 years ago
would the increase in national debt
you know Austria issued 100-year bonds
you know what two percent or thereabouts
and then gone way way out but yeah and I
think maybe they yield 1.1 or something
like that I don't know where they are
now but it's great if you're a borrowed
object Jake might have made everybody to
refinance their mortgage is that an
argument for the Federal Reserve or I'm
sorry for the treasury department here
issuing longer longer notes well yeah
but I would not have the same thing five
or six years ago been wrong but if we
under the president's slope it still
would cost more to lengthen it out but
you're lengthening out a very very low
rates and it would be what I would be
inclined to do if I were secretary
treasurer but I'd have missed a lot of
bets in the last ten years to Warren
again for people who are just wake you
up
tuning in and they want to know what you
think about this sell-off this morning
to see the Dow down 700 800 points in
the morning what's your reaction when
you see something like that well my
reaction is that I like to buy stock so
I I don't wish it on anybody else but I
like the if they want to sell them could
be cheaper I I prefer it so if that's a
roughly a 3% decline or there abouts
I don't know how many three percent
declines I've had in my lifetime but
there have been a lot of them and I I
can't think of one that you shouldn't
have bought on you know basically that
doesn't mean stocks are gonna go up or
down next week or next month or next
year but but if there's something if you
like to own American businesses you're
getting a chance to buy a 3% cheaper I
don't consider that a lot cheaper I mean
but but but how can it be bad news
unless you have to sell stocks now if
you have to sell them for some reason
that's what you're worse off if you
don't have to sell them I mean somebody
can come around and offer you over quote
on your house today and it could be 2%
less than they offered you yesterday but
if you like the house it maybe doesn't
make any difference does that mean
Berkshire will be buying stocks today
it's well we certainly won't be selling
and and yeah we made we could easily be
buying something sure let's talk a
little bit about a Barron's cover story
that was just out last week the good
news on the cover story is they think
the Berkshire is worth more than it's
selling for right now the bad news is
they said they think that's in part
because there's it's got a big
conglomerate discount and they think if
you weren't running it that it might get
broken up what's your response to that
line of logic
well conglomerates have had a bad name
and for good reason over the years I mag
I closed my partnership up at the end of
the 1960s and there was a run a very
abusive running conglomerates where they
played with numbers and they had dirty
pooling as they called it of accounting
they they wanted to have their stocks up
and put out stories to do it so they
could issue more stock they were kind of
chain letter arrangements there there
have been a lot of there have been a lot
of bad conglomerates and probably
disproportionately so compared to sort
of honest-to-god single industry
businesses over time
we don't think we're that kind of a
conglomerate we've certainly never
wanted issue shares we've never tated
shares weight at all and it's it's it's
done for business reasons in our case
the interesting thing is of course is
the American public has been going wild
in their enthusiasm burg conglomerates
in the last few years if you think about
it I mean it's been the incredibly
popular area but they call them index
funds you buy 500 businesses 500
businesses all put together and that's
the ultimate conglomerate isn't it I
mean I've recommended index funds to
lots of people and when they do it
they're buying into 500 businesses and
they're gonna have 500 businesses a year
from now and five years now and they
think that group of businesses that will
do very well and I think our group will
do okay the difference with an SP 500
index is its 500 different companies run
by 500 different management teams who
are all focused on their business maybe
not having a centralized operation that
is loosely running all of those balances
we've got our businesses are run by
separate people I mean I
we just finished Valentine's Day and I
did not I did not so like what pieces
are wet in the boxes and it's been
probably been ten years at least since
I've been to a See's Candies Factory now
you know I get the figures every month
but I I don't have I don't know how to
make chocolate yeah think of the sort I
don't pick out the new locations we we
have managers for our businesses that
are very much like the managers we have
for the businesses that we own pieces of
like American Express or coca-cola and
there's a couple things we can do we can
determine the dividend policy of our
subsidiaries we can control their
capital allocation to some extent but on
most capital allocation whether to buy
new equipment or anything like that they
make the decisions of the BNSF railroad
is gonna spend three and a half billion
dollars and I I don't I don't approve a
single dollar of that in terms of
capital expenditures they they know what
they need to do or they need to lay
track how many locomotives and whatever
it may be
so our managers are I would say in a
sense they're almost more
independent than the managers are the
estimate 500 who go out and report to
Wall Street week after week they could
have investor relations meeting and
they're always explaining what they're
doing and trying to get the approval of
the analysts and all that sort of things
and we just tell our managers to do what
makes sense okay outside of the idea of
them not having to report to individual
shareholders or the investment community
what's the advantage of having you there
the capital allocation part of it well
we couldn't yeah we can move capital
within if you move capital from one
stock to another and you got a game but
I mean you pay a tax and that may be a
dividend tax if you sell but there's a
there's a lot of taxes incurred in
moving from one business to another
either at the corporate level in some
cases but certainly at the individual
level and we can move capital well just
exceeds candy again we bought that in
1972 we've moved a several billion
dollars from the candy business to other
types of businesses and we'd love it if
we could use it all in the candy
business but it just isn't that sort of
business and in addition to that we free
up our managers from all dealing with a
Wall Street dealing with baggers they
own all kinds of things that are what I
regard as less productive use of their
time however you also have a situation
where you have gotten some activists
who've been interested in the stock
including Bill Ackman he's built up a
stake hasn't said too much about it but
I think he has made some comments about
how maybe Burlington Northern Santa Fe
is marginally improved you can look back
at Bill Ackman's experience with the
Canadian Pacific Railway and kind of
wonder if he is building up a position
because he would like to see you take a
more active role there well we noticed
one of the railroads earner when their
margins are better I mean and we we
certainly put way less pressure on than
Wall Street might who would want a next
week or but we our managers are well
aware of what's going on in other
industries and and we've made changes
where we don't think some businesses are
performing as well as they should
overwhelmingly we've got managers there
that are very very good
they've got capital available to them
for anything that makes sense and we
decide how much they distribute where
the capital moves and sometimes it moves
from one industry to another and in
certain industries a consolidated tax
position really is very helpful to us
there's a viewer question that came in
from been constant and he asks it was
recently pointed out by Bill Ackman that
some subsidiaries like Geico BNSF
flagged their peers in some areas would
you agree with that and how can your
success or push improvement in
subsidiaries while maintaining a
decentralized management structure well
as Geico we bought control in 1995 we
had about two-and-a-half percent of the
market for auto insurance and we're at
about 13.7 percent of the market so
we've gone from two and a half billion a
premium volume or there abouts to 35
billion premium we're number two now to
State Farm we were number six or seven
at that time so I would say that not due
to Berkshire at all but due to Tony
Knicely
during almost all those years Geico has
been the envy of every other company and
the auto insurance business except for
progressive but they've done a good job
too but I like oh it's worth tens and
tens and tens of billions more than one
we water in addition to all the earnings
we go just the goodwill value so that's
been extraordinarily well run and with
Burlington we I think we paid a dividend
of five billion last year and we paid
thirty five billion for it so it's
gained and market share and its business
its operating margins have improved but
they haven't improved as much as some
other railroads do you believe in
precision scheduling railroading well
we'll see I mean that we watched it
plenty and and and for those who don't
know what that is it's something that
kind of
irritates customers because it makes
things a little more rigid but it
doesn't yeah it makes the customers
adapt to the railroad more than the
railroad adapting the customers and
practically everybody's done it in a
fellow named hunter Harrison was
enormously successful we worked with
Bill Ackman at the Canadian Pacific at
the NSF if you go back far enough he and
there's a book about its variants but
he's at the Illinois Central the
Canadian National the Canadian Pacific
and then he was going over to the CSX he
he he developed a method of railroading
where the customer doesn't adapt more to
the to the railroad and improve margins
dramatically our margins are close to
what the better railroads well there's
only a few the get from precision
railroading other than we've gained
share because because the railroads
apparently are very old customers like
us better and over the over the long
term we'll see but it isn't like it's
something we can't do here's the latest
on the coronavirus China reported an
additional 150 deaths and 409 new cases
overnight South Korea raised its
coronavirus alert to the highest level
after the number of cases their balloon
from 31 to more than 750 in less than a
week stocks in Asia falling overnight
Hong Kong's Hang Seng FL 1.8% South
Korea's kospi fell nearly 3.9 percent
shares of South Korea's two largest
airlines down as they canceled flights
to the city of Daegu where many of the
new cases were detected meantime Italy's
government is scrambling to deal with
the biggest outbreak of the corona virus
outside of Asia stocks there were lower
overnight the government placed at least
10 towns in northern Italy under
quarantine and canceled the last few
days of the Venice Carnival elsewhere in
at least schools museums universities
and cinemas were closed and major soccer
matches were cancelled at this point I
mean Boris Johnson out earlier today and
ER saying that the risk to UK citizens
just over there remains low I would say
that our officials would say that here
to the US
u.s. citizens remains low but there's a
significant difference between supply
chain disruption slowing dozens and
dozens and actually hundreds of
companies absolutely and that's
dampening global growth what worries me
is that we don't know three three months
six months nine months if it ever gets
to the point where we start to see in a
lot of countries around the world these
these break outs where they're don't
even know the origin of some of these
and if they multiply like that that's
when I think it could really get at this
point it's still a it's still a global
growth slowdown nobody in in most of the
world is worried that they're gonna
catch coronavirus right and they can't
go out and they can't you know go to the
movies or the health club or to a
restaurant but that I just wonder what
we don't know they're a major travel
that's being changed right now
conferences are being cancelled there
was an article in Time magazine
speculating when the weather the
Olympics in Japan over the summer will
be canceled so there there's real
implications here that could reverberate
having said that the farther we get to
the spring the better it gets it was a
weather
there's a whole sort of it about how the
flu you know you know I was looking at
gyms someone gyms tweets earlier if you
go too far with with the the fear and
the panic you're accused of one thing if
you don't go far enough you're accused
of the other thing so we really just
need to sit here and in each day report
on the facts and try to remain attached
but there's something something about a
pandemic that just is different than
other black swans it's it's it's a
frightening prospect name of let's get
right back to our guest of the morning
Warren Buffett joins Becky in Omaha
following the release of his annual
letter to shareholders over the weekend
Becky you took a plane I mean we it's in
the back of our minds it's just in the
back there's no where and this goes back
to 1918 it goes back to 1980 if you look
at the numbers of what happened in that
pandemic when it came around the globe
up to 50 million people were killed in
that it was a third of the planets
population that was infected it was 500
million people that were infected at
that point 675 thousand Americans died
at that point so inevitably your
mind kind of goes back to what's
happened in the past because as humans
we always look back to history to try
and predict the future doesn't always
work it's not always prophetic but it
does give you something of what to kind
of play out if this were to get worse
and worse now Andrew brought up the idea
that it's warm weather we're approaching
spring and a lot of parts of the country
or a lot of parts of the planet that may
be good news we just don't know if this
time around if this is one of those
viruses that that does die off in warmer
weather wait and see and kind of hope
actually I think there's from what I've
heard from people that know a lot more
about viruses than I do that that
unfortunately this will make it for the
summer and and in terms of having a
vaccine it's you know a long ways off so
you've got you know it is scary stuff
that I don't think it should affect what
you're doing stocks but but in terms of
in terms of the human race it's scary
stuff when you have a pandemic yeah I
guess this one's particularly
frightening because it's new so there's
no natural immunity that's built up in
any of the populations and you wonder
what happens particularly in areas where
there's not the same healthcare
structure that we have in America or in
some of the developed nations I guess
that's a big part of the question to him
yeah it's it's uh well I think about a
nervous of our annual meeting I mean
that which is made a second I mean it it
could very well affect by that time it
could affect oh we've got questions from
viewers asking just that will the annual
meeting be any different this year
particularly because you have a large
Chinese contingency of shareholders I
don't think that yeah then that
certainly will be affected and and and
incidentally I mean flow is particularly
tough on old people gonna have two guys
on the stages combined ages 185 so well
well we won't be looking for people and
showing any signs of contagion but
that's one of the problems with this is
it does have a long gestation period and
it's highly transmissible and again you
did talk about it earlier it's something
that you see
and the results of the businesses even
some of your own fully owned furnaces
that you had didn't anticipate well we
hold Airlines for example it infects
businesses now actually my dad used to
tell me story was 14 in 1918 and they he
told me what went on in Omaha you know
during the big Spanish flu epidemic uh
me that it was it was something in those
days and and pandemics will occur in the
in the future now what they hope to get
is is a universal flu vaccine but that's
a long way off it isn't impossible I
mean I asked my my own science advisors
Bill Gates so I talked to him I call him
I talked him the last few days about
about it and he's bullish on the
long-term outlook for a universal
prevention of it but but so they're not
going to come you know for not gonna be
here in ten years what are what are
Bill's concerns as somebody who spends a
lot of time traveling around the globe
as somebody who is trying to help
medicine in some of the less develop art
of the world yet the Gates Foundation is
is very active and trying to be helpful
on this and and Bell says the CDC is the
best in the world and I mean we've got
terrific resources in this country but a
pandemic is a pandemic and and there's
just no evaluating and but I have heard
that the summer is not likely to cause
the end of this do you know why but I
don't know and you know you shouldn't be
asking III shouldn't be offering my
opinion on that because I I pass along
things right here from people I think
are smart but but I'm actually asking
for Bill's opinion not yours well I
shouldn't and I shouldn't really quote
it but I do a he's the guy I asked and I
didn't talk to one just a few days ago
and he loves the talk science and he
could make it so I could understand it
which is quite a trick at the Gates
Foundation they're taking it very
seriously I'll put it that way is money
going from the Gates Foundation to try
and I'm sure we're expending human and
financial resources have I mean maybe
this is more than you know but you know
if they have put human resources out
either into China or other places
whether I don't know that's I don't want
to comment on that spectrum Bob din as
human health and and and and even
particularly this bill knows a lot about
vaccines let's talk a little bit about
Berkshire Hathaway we were in the middle
of a conversation when we had to go to a
break before but there has been this
question raised not only by Baron's in
the cover story there but by other
places too about whether Berkshire
Hathaway would be worth more if it were
split up that's a good question that I
will tell you that that if you were to
say and let's say the stock market
didn't change for two years and interest
rates didn't change so you had a two
year period and you said we'll sell off
all the businesses I don't think I mean
you have the expenses of selling them
now if you sold them all the people who
leveraged them up to their maximum you
might get a little more than the stock
is selling for it would be very taxing
efficient very tax inefficient
interestingly enough up till 1986 it
wouldn't have been I mean there was a
general utilities doctrine that governed
corporate break ups and so you could
dispose of businesses or securities if
you did it right you could dispose of
securities or businesses that are
depreciated without a tax at the
corporate level that was done regularly
in various ways up till 1986 they
revised the tax code big time they
killed general utilities you can't do
that now now you can go up you can have
spin-offs this business or that business
you probably have to lie a little in
terms of your purpose in order to get
the best tax ruling and it takes time
but you cannot break up you cannot
dispose of the entire business business
by business without having very
substantial tax I though it would not
produce again on the other hand having
them together produces there there's
some very valuable
synergies in there now we don't use
leverage as much as the people who would
buy and piece-by-piece would do so we
could leverage Berkshire up to the sky I
promise people we won't because we have
insurance promises to people out 50 or
100 years and we've got shareholders
they're gonna own the stock for 50 years
and they do not want us to tell leverage
to the sky but there would not be a
profit if if we were simply to announce
that over the next 24 months that you
can come in and buy any business we had
and we'd sell them to the highest bidder
you made a point of talking about this
in the annual letter you said key to my
only Berkshire or key to my Berkshire
only institutions is my faith in the
future judgment and fidelity of
Berkshire directors they will regularly
be tested by Wall Streeters barring fees
and many companies the super salesman
might win I do not however expect this
to happen that's not exactly true I
think by writing it it helps a little to
know there's no question that that Wall
Street would love to come along and sell
anything that we've got I mean though
there's a V every time that there's a
transaction and they're big fees and and
there's fees for an answer you gotta be
this so we've had all kinds of people
snoop around that then they know they're
not getting it done with me but they
won't it won't get done later on either
I I am leaving
every every share of per tribe goes to
charity and its 99 percent of my net
worth so I got nobody cares more than I
do about getting the most money to those
philanthropies over the forward the
years following my deaths and that's
going to take place over 15 years and I
say keep it all in Berkshire but if I
thought that it was going to be run in a
way responsive the Wall Street I would I
would instead do something else and and
have the money distributed these
philanthropies and not have it all tied
to Berkshire but Berkshire has a very
unusual shareholder base I mean we have
individuals that own Berkshire and a lot
of them alone in 50 years just like its
but people buy it to own for lifetime
and and we're gonna run it in a way that
they won't be disappointed me do you
think the people who are
Neuer relatively newer shareholders
buying the b shares have the same
mentality as the people who have been in
it for fifty years in the age well we
tried it because that's who we encourage
I mean in effect we don't want everybody
to buy our stock I mean there's only so
many seats there's about a million six
hundred and some thousand a shares out
all the seats are filled
I love the shareholders we have I don't
want to go to Wall Street and try and
get some new shareholders they're gonna
replace the people we have so what we
want to have is people in those seats
that are in sync with us you can run a
French restaurant or you can run a
hamburger stand and if you serve good
hamburgers you'll do good business
stammers and you at the french fries
shouldn't you do the same thing there
but you can't run the French restaurant
and serve hamburgers inside and you
can't run the hamburgers down at serve
the French food inside so we advertise
in our deeds and our words and every way
we can
what we're about and we're looking to
have the seats filled at our church by
people who are in sync with us and we do
have them there we get the same people
every Sunday and I see no advantage in
going out and telling everybody and also
we're gonna do wonderful things and
having those seats for place because the
only way you can get a seat is to throw
somebody else on that seat there's only
so many seats and they're all full and
you want them filled with people who are
in the sink with the with the policies
of the company and therefore you have to
explain those policies and you have to
live up to those policies and for 55
years we've tried to so you get the
shareholders you deserve exactly it's
all right not to mix metaphors but can
you have a decentralized central office
running both the French restaurant and
the hamburger place well they aren't
trying we're not trying to have the
railroad management run the hotel of the
Year decentralized that's what I mean a
decentralized headquarters that's in
charge a conglomerate in charge of all
those different businesses
well you we could run well we have
decentralized management as it is we
could have somebody in charge of all the
little companies is another one no the
big and we could divisional eyes in all
kinds of ways I think we'd have more
overhead I think we'd have a different
sort of manager or managers like running
their own
and they they like they never have to
finance their businesses I mean we they
never have to go to Wall Street they
never they probably saved 25 percent of
their time and and I want them to feel
they own their businesses and that's all
they're responsible for if we mess up
some other way you know they still they
get paid based on how they do and
they're again we attract managers who
like to operate on that basis we don't
attract managers particularly who think
they're gonna keep moving step by step
through various divisions and eventually
run the whole place one of the things
that that people wrote in a lot of
people had questions about the bank's
about what's happening with the banks
but you've changed with some of your
investments over time
Jason Goldberg writes in and he says
please ask Warren about his views on the
bank stocks in general and on Wells
Fargo in particular over the last few
quarters he sold almost a quarter of his
long-standing work Wells Fargo stake
also in the fourth quarter he dumped a
third of his Goldman stock goldman sachs
shares although he still owns over
seventy five billion dollars in bank
equities so what do you think about
banks not necessarily the sell-off today
because you don't look at day by day
well banking is a good business if you
don't do dumb things on the outside and
I mean basically and it's a business
that the banks we own earn between the
commercial banks earn between 12 percent
and 16 percent or so on tangent that
tangible assets that's a good business
it's a fantastic business against the
long-term bond you know a two percent
they have a choice between a two percent
instrument a twelve percent net so which
one's gonna win over time so so if you
ask me whether I think banks are going
to go down where they only earn three or
four percent on tangible assets I don't
think that'll happen the question is
really whether they do something
massively dumb I mean which periodically
a number of banks have done and I feel
very good about the bank's wheel and I
they're they're very attractive compared
to most other securities I see and and
most of them are buying Bank of
America's
in a lot of stock every year so our
ownership of the Bank of America this
year probably will go up seven or eight
percent without a spending a dime I
think I'd like doing any business any
good business where my ownership fix is
up seven or eight percent every year
without me spending any money and on top
of it I get a dividend so it they're
very they're very attractive both
against interest rates and against or
against bonds and against other stocks
in my build you say occasionally they do
dumb things maybe you're talking about
Wells Fargo with the scandal that it had
it just settled on Friday with a number
of the regulatory institutions that were
kind of looking into it the investigator
implications that were taking place for
three billion dollars does this mean
that they have kind of finally gotten
through that and can move forward I
don't know the answer to that I know
that because I don't know what else is
outstanding but Wells Fargo's classic in
in in terms of one lesson my partner
Charlie martyred he's you know what he
says whenever we have a problem you
attack it immediately says announce a
perversion isn't an ounce of prevention
is not worth a pound of cure an ounce of
prevention is worth a ton of cure and
we've seen that time after time and the
interesting thing I I and I don't know
the details at all but the original
thing was a bunch of whole bunch of
phony accounts now I don't know how if
you open up a couple million phony
accounts you make any money on it I
don't the shareholders didn't make money
people say the Santa structure was set
up so that some of the it's almost a
system you can thing and as soon as you
learn you can devise dumb incentive
systems we've done ourselves I mean you
can you could cause people to do the
wrong thing because they will do what
their incentive to do and they had a
obviously a very dumb incentive system
people started playing at various ways
and the big thing is they ignored nor
that when they found out about it I mean
you you're gonna do dumb things in
business and we do them every day you
know but they yeah absolutely have to
attack a problem as soon as it occurs
and yet and you know about it and if
that had happened
well Fergus are olders would be a lot
better off but what
for Fargo shareholders does not did not
profit from opening up accounts that
were phony accounts that had nothing in
them I mean somebody was getting paid so
much Burke out so the and the practice
spread because bad practices do spread
if they're allowed to spread and they
were ignored which is a total disaster
and and look at the consequences of two
or three years later who's paying the
shareholders are paying for something
that didn't do them any good whatsoever
is that why you've sold off some of the
shares no that's not specifically I know
you don't want to get specific on
recommending what stocks people have to
make up their own minds out of that but
okay I want to ask you a question about
Todd combs and his new role at Geico I
got several questions that came in from
that and let's just use this one from
Peter Lam Paris during last year's
interview on CNBC after the 2018 letter
was released you were asked about
succession at Geico and you mentioned
that at a recent meeting at Geico you
met about 40 of their top executives and
after each introduce themselves they
stated their length of time with the
company the shortest was 19 years please
explain why none of these 40 top
executives were qualified to take over a
CEO after the retirement of Bill Roberts
again that's Pete Lam Paris from Chicago
bill Roberts took over not even two
years ago and last and he's done a
terrific job in connection with Tony
nicely I mean Geico is my first love
absolutely I tell the other companies
that do you can't compete for my second
love but you can't compete for my first
love was just Geico because it goes back
sixty sixty nine years and it did
wonders for me anyway
Geico Bill Roberts took over the lesson
two years ago and then in October
November last year he said he would he'd
like to retire in a year he would adjust
it in any way that made it the easiest
for us and and we did not have the
person in my view to replace him at that
point and Todd combs who's worked with
Berkshire now for 10 years
he actually was a product manager at
progressive in the past and he knows a
lot about insurance insurance is
probably the only business I know
something about the world all right
summer no confusion but I understand the
insurance business in some degree Todd
understands it very well at the operator
level and so Todd is there and I hope
very much that that he's not there very
long because I'd like to get him back
home aha but our intention always is to
promote them within and we would hope to
have pick out the right person at Geico
it isn't if there isn't somebody there
it's just you want to have the right one
because when you put somebody in you're
going to keep him there for a long time
and and or her and does that suggest
Todd is not going to be there for a long
time I don't think you know no the plan
is not for him to be I mean he has not
made a permanent career shift and he I
don't know how long it'll be there we
have we have one important problem which
is which all insurance companies have
but progressive has done a better job of
managing of correlated risk with with
rate and that is what we're focused on
now correlating rate in other words
having the proper rate right charging
the right amount charging right about if
you were in the life insurance business
and you thought that 80 year olds had
the same life expectancy is 20 years old
you'd have a big problem and what
happened is you'd write all the 80 year
olds and somebody would write all the 20
year olds so in auto insurance the same
thing there's a lot of insurance I'm not
sure I might prefer the 80 year olds
over the 20-year well you might and yep
he certainly would prefer the 80 year
olds to the 16 year olds I mean yeah and
you'd prefer the 16 year old female with
16 year old male there's a whole bunch
of things so you've got a core you
really got to segment risks and that's
enormous ly important and every
company's trying to do it better all the
time
we do it far better than we did 50 years
ago
we have room for improvement on that
we're focused on that and the meantime
we're growing faster they were gaining
market share with Geico is a fantastic
as that Todd job is to focus on that but
it's also to work himself out of a job
very quickly and and preferably to work
definitely that preferably to work
himself out of a job with with somebody
from Geico
Eric Lafont writes a follow-up question
he says Warren why did you and Ajit
decide to appoint Todd combs as the CEO
of Geico that part you've answered but
how will he be able to run Geico manage
a thirteen billion dollar investment
portfolio oversee Haven and be on the
board of JP Morgan yeah well let's keep
him busy and we're and we've totally
unlimited use of him that judge oh sure
I mean we wanted to be efficient that's
what that just is for it and and and you
know I'll be working 70 hour weeks the
the question about the portfolio is
interesting most months neither tender
Todd makes a single change in their
portfolio I mean portfolio management is
something that you learn over decades
and when I ran Salomon I you know I was
running bursary portfolio it's not
something that you have to sit there day
by day and new people do it that way but
if there are many years where if I just
left the portfolio entirely the same it
didn't make any change that we'd be
better off so it that's not about but
but you're right in terms of JP Morgan's
border he's he's gonna be a very busy
guy Geico is the top priority but it
doesn't go to say the top priority
for a long long time let me run to
another question that max Oh 205 wrote
in have Todd combs and Ted Weschler
outperformed the S&P 500 since they
began working at Berkshire why don't you
disclose their record why don't why
don't you disclose their record they
said well we're not disclosing I I think
it would be very unusual form to
discover disclose everybody sales last
year among their salespeople or anything
like that I think that they're titled to
work and relative anonymity our
directors know how they do I know how
they do we made a lot of money with them
I feel very good I mean I feel very good
about it Ben always but we're not going
to we're not going to tell you how much
each candy store sells its See's candy r
who was the top the top person that at
any place brought in the sales or
whatever it may be all right let's jump
to Berkshires overall record versus S&P
a Berkshire has now underperformed the
S&P 500 on one year three year five year
and tenure marks is that because it's
too big and will it ever be able to
outperform well certainly being too big
as part of it and but I would say this
during that same time I mean last year
we achieved now I don't like a gap
earnings very well but we achieved the
highest gap earnings of any company in
the world has ever achieved
that's investor owned and we have the
highest net worth of any company in the
world investor owned any company in the
world so it I would say related to
safety of principal over time I feel
good about it and I feel good about the
fact that 99% of my money's in it and
that it will be the source of all the
philanthropic contributions that are
made for fifteen or dozen years after I
die so but I don't think I do not think
it will be in the top 10 percent of
stocks performing over the next ten
years I don't think it'll be in the top
15 percent of stocks performing in the
next 10 or 15 years I also don't think
it'll be in the bottom 10% or 20% or 30%
so but our ability to have a huge edge
over the market generally with a 550
billion dollar market value and it's
just it'll be minor but it'll be done in
a very very safe manner is an investment
in the sp500 a better investment it
could be it could be you know unbalanced
I think we'll do a little better but
it'll be it'll be minor depends on the
kind of market workers who are in a down
market we're gonna beat it I mean it's
that simple and
times we will be the last ten years we
haven't been but over 55 years it's
worked and and it will continue working
but it will not work at all like it did
when we were working with a hundred
million dollars or a billion dollars
there's no question about that but we've
got good businesses and there we won't
be in the bottom quartile over any long
period of time there are people like
there were back in 1999 who have said
maybe you've lost your edge it was a
similar thing at the in 1999 where you
saw the technology stocks that were the
big high flyers that people were pouring
their money into the dot-com companies
and a lot of others associated with that
if you look at the markets again it's
the technology companies that have the
big runs this time you're participating
in Apple which is one of those
frontrunners but is this a cyclical
thing to you you think there'll be
another market downturn and then turn
some diamond okay Berkshire outperforms
at that point or Oh little outperform in
a down market but but that may not be
satisfactory the people but we will
because we have these businesses are
making money and that I mean weird we're
not weird somewhat away from a full
market participation on in either
direction but that's fine we own if you
think about it we're 80 some percent in
equities yeah we may so to show two
hundred and thirty or forty billion in
equities and that looks like we're
against our market cap we're 40 percent
but we own a hundred percent of these
other businesses those are equities too
I mean we own a right and we own
insurance companies and those are those
are equities so we're about 80 percent
in roughly inequities and about 20
percent in cash and I'd rather I'd
rather have that 20 percent and other
good businesses but but that is to some
extent a curse of size and it's to some
extent the fact that that it's very hard
if interest rates stay at this level
will wish we'd for the next 10 or 20
years who wish we'd been a hundred and
twenty five percent in equities I mean
that did you know equities are so much
cheaper than bonds long bonds
that you know some something will change
in a major way
I just don't know what and I want to be
prepared for anything obviously so
that's why you keep so much cash around
you want to be able to be prepared for a
downturn and you want to be prepared for
a crisis we want to be prepared for
anything we want to be prepared for
pandemics we want to be prepared for
anything comes along yeah that is the
chief job I have I have people's money
they gave it to me fifty or sixty years
ago on some of them still have 100
percent of their money here essentially
in it and and the one thing and I've got
the responsibility for five foundations
that presently are going to get 80
billion and I think we'll get a lot more
over time probably we don't want to
permanently lose money and and you don't
want to get that so that you go into a
shell and don't do anything but we have
obligations to people on workers
compensation claims and auto accidents
they've got to go out 50 years and you
know we have to run the place so that
every check clears under any
circumstances and that's why incident we
own Treasury bills we don't we don't
know commercial paper we don't rely on
bank lines or anything when people get
terrified and they will occasionally
everything freezes you know and and
you're gonna have to stand on your own
feet at a time like that won't happen
very often but it'll happen occasionally
I know you've developed a thick skin
over the years but does it tick you off
when people start questioning whether
you've lost it whether you can still
well I I'm sure I've lost all kinds of
things I'm lost
that happens but we haven't lost Geico
or the railroads Berkshire without me
this is worth essentially the same as
Berkshire with me I mean I that my
value-added is not high but but I don't
think I'm subtracting value but the big
thing is how our businesses do and what
what what we get to add in the way of
businesses over time and we can add them
through marketable securities I mean we
own five and a half or a little over a
percent of Apple that's probably the
best business
I know in the world and we own five and
a percent of it and that is a bigger
commitment that we have in anything
except insurance and the railroad so
it's it's our third largest business
yeah made the point that it was bigger
than your biggest acquisition a
precision no it's our third largest
business all right let me test you on
your thick skin okay
here was the kicker of that Barron's
cover story said there's reasons to
think that the company will be a market
beater when he's gone
in the meantime happy 90th yeah well its
iio but as a market beater what I'm
counting on I'm telling my estate and
then the trustees that succeed my
executor Xin the estate I'm telling him
to keep every share of Berkshire they
have until they have this pattern
they're giving it away I mean look I
want them to look back and say gee we
should have made this change earlier
because it's going to determine how much
we by the way of vaccines and you know
and and all kinds of things education
and all these things and I feel terrific
about Berkshire after I leave I want to
talk about another issue that we have
not touched on yet and that's politics
here in the United States we just
watched the Nevada that Nevada caucus
Bernie Sanders walked away with the most
delegates after that he looks to be
mcclure front-runner for the nomination
for the Democrats this time around you
have long been a supporter of the
Democratic Party what do you think well
I think I'm gonna wait and see who gets
the nomination but I'm a Democrat but
I'm not a card-carrying Democrat and I
voted for him hold against I've
contributed a Republican seat in fact
I've i-i've only run for two offices in
my life one was head of the Young
Republicans at the University of
Pennsylvania and the other time I was
actually on the ballot running for a
delegate to the Republican National
Convention this 1960 but normally I vote
for Democrats and we will see what
happens
Wow that's the first time I've ever
heard you say something like that
well it's I've kept it a secret for all
these years but now it comes out
you just said that you're not a
card-carrying Democrat it's true you are
a card-carrying capitalist actually have
one of those in your wallet yeah I've
seen it I don't know whether I'm a
card-carrying capitalist right I don't
think that's consistent with
inconsistent with what I said on
politics yeah here it is
can't see I'll show you on this camera
right are you caring capitalist and this
is what you carry in your wallet yeah
and I think I think we will have some of
those available of the annual meeting do
I think
Andrews got a question that he wanted to
jump in with here Andrew I was just
gonna follow up on that question Warren
which was about a year ago we had asked
you about Michael Bloomberg and you had
said that if he ever entered the race he
was somebody you would support would you
support him is he your candidate well I
would he I would certainly I would
certainly vote for him I don't think I
don't think another billionaire
supporting him it would be the best
thing to announce but sure I would I
would have no trouble voting for Mike
Bloomberg well I don't think I want to
get into handicapping the race but I
would say this in terms of Sanders I
actually agree with him in terms of
certain things he would like to
accomplish I don't agree with them in
many ways but in terms of the fact that
that we ought to do better by the people
to get left behind by our capitalist
system I don't think we should have
killed the capitalist system in the
process I think we should make sure that
the golden goose keeps laying more eggs
and it's worked wonderfully since 1776
but it doesn't work as well for people
whose talents aren't really geared to a
market economy and I don't think anybody
should be left behind by an economy that
has over 60,000 dollars of GDP per
capita and so I'm a big fan of
increasing the Earned Income Tax Credit
and I'm I'm you know I think there
should be some changes made but but if
given a choice I wouldn't certainly vote
for Mike Bloomberg as opposed to Sanders
there is a
let's talk about some of Sandra's plans
you said you agree with some of what his
intentions are but let's talk about some
of those actual plans one of those plans
would be to give 20% of company stock to
employees and put workers on the board
what do you think about that that would
be for any company public company that
has more than hundred million dollars in
annual revenue or 100 million dollar
balance well I don't want to get Baba's
evaluating his whole plan but I think
that would be a particularly bad idea
because I just I don't think that I
don't think putting 20% of the
capitalist auto labor you could ID
and I I I think the market system works
very very well in terms of developing
more goods and services I mean when you
flew out here to Omaha if you've gone
out there and you're gonna be able to
fly in 1776 you wouldn't have seen
anything everything you see is the
product of a system that's worked like
nothing's ever worked in the history of
the world so I I do not believe in
messing up our system of developing
output I do believe that that anybody's
willing to work 40 hours a week and has
a couple kids should not have to have an
extra there's a second job and I believe
in having a higher income for people not
necessarily a higher minimum wage but I
I do not think it's at all unreasonable
that the Income Tax Credit produces at
least is $15 an hour maybe higher in
certain areas so I I've been very much
in sympathy with the fact that that that
senator Sanders believes that a lot of
people are getting left behind and
through no fault of their own and
there's all kinds of aspects of
capitalism that can need in some ways to
be regulated but I don't believe in
giving up the capitalistic system all
right let me slip in some questions that
viewers have written in on this front
Michael blank writes in please ask
Warren if he thinks the market will sell
off if it becomes clear that Bernie
Sanders will win the Democratic
nomination I think I normally would
never make a comment on something like
that but I would say that if you had
Sanders and a Democratic House and
Senate
or if you had Trump with a Republican
House and Senate there would be a
significant difference but I don't think
I would necessarily vote on what in fact
I know I wouldn't vote on what I thought
necessarily would affect the market the
better I think it's a very poor
yardstick I would not want to cast my
vote in a presidential election based on
which would be better for the market in
the next 30 or 60 or 90 days after the
election but your reservations with
Bernie Sanders I assume come with your
concerns about what it means for the
economy not over 30 69 is over a much
broader period certain aspects of the
economy just certain things you know I'd
like to see done I would like to see the
Earned Income Tax Credit change
dramatically upward Allen Bucky writes
in a letter he says if Michael Bloomberg
becomes the Democratic candidate would
you consider buying his company no
[Laughter]
because of the price because of there'd
be there'd be some pay more Warren we've
talked this morning about the corona
virus but there are people who are
waking up across the country now kind of
tuning in at this hour so maybe we
should address this again with the
market syndicated down 750 points with
concerns about coronavirus spreading and
now worries about what that will mean
for the global economy this year I know
this isn't not something you look at a
day-by-day basis but how do you kind of
wake up and read this and think through
it I don't think it makes no difference
in our investments I mean there's always
gonna be some news good or bad every day
and in fact if you go back and read all
the papers for the last 50 years
probably most of the headlines tend to
be bad but but if you look at what
happens to the economy most of the
things happen are extremely good I mean
it's incredible what will happen over
time so if if somebody came told me that
the global growth rate was gonna be down
1% instead of 1/10 of a percent I'd
still buy stocks if I felt like the
business and I like the price at which
they and I like the price better today
than I like to last Friday
do you like prices better today will
Berkshire of you're buying stock today
well we'll certainly be more inclined to
buy stock
today than on Friday yeah yeah anything
we were buying Friday we were behind the
day and and feeling better about buying
it you know one of the things we talked
about in the annual letter was stock
buybacks of Berkshire Hathaway and for
the first time you told people to call
Marc Maillard in your office outright if
they have 20 million dollars worth of
Berger shares and they're ready to sell
right that's a really unusual move why
didn't you do that well we did it
because it's very hard to buy blocks in
the market of the Berkshire we probably
never see blocks except we do see him
from estates or occasionally but if
somebody's going to sell honour'd
million shares a hundred million dollars
worth of Berkshire and we want to buy it
we'd like him to call us and if it's if
it's if we're buying at that price level
we'll be buying
Leviathan Dan Mahoney actually wrote in
with a very similar question he just
said is it hard to buy back the shares
it's harder to buy back Berkshire shares
and say Bank of America I was buying
back their share Bank of America bought
back eight or nine percent of their
stock last year and they can really do
it without moving the market I mean
apples been buying back a ton of stock
they were buying stock at the same time
we were buying stock but it was easier
for us to buy Apple stock even though
Apple itself was buying a lot of stock
than it is to buy Berkshire Berkshire is
well it's held by people but really plan
to keep it there I think the amount of
speculation and Berkshire stock is
relatively low compared to most stock
sense and so it's it's it's it's it's
well we bought five billion dollars
worth last year but that's only one
percent of the market cap and and I
would say with a great many companies
you can buy four or five percent of the
company fairly easily a year without
disturbing the market market expres has
been buying it every year so with you
putting out an ad in the letter to
shareholders does that basically mean
you are eager to buy more shares back
ends on the price but but we'll let
anybody know if they and we told him to
call us before the opening or after the
close but but and only of only with
blocks and only if they're ready to do
business now there'll be a few people
probably they'd probably try and call
just to see whether we're buying or not
I mean we will we will not show a lot of
patience with those
let's talk about shares of Apple both
from you just mentioning it with the
share buybacks with it being such a huge
holding of yours you've got more than
5.3 percent of the company right now in
these five six but goes up every day
well we've seen with the slow down with
the coronavirus because Apple is one of
the companies that has said it's going
to have an impact not only at the stores
that they've closed there with the
behavior of Chinese customers but also
what happens with the supply chain sure
what how do you read through any of that
what are you hearing do you know more
than we do on all right no I don't know
one thing more I see I may see Tim Cook
at the annual meeting I see him in Sun
Valley once a year no I I don't think I
don't think that placed a phone call to
Tim Cook in two or three years I mean it
no I it all kinds of things are gonna
happen that for the next ten years the
real question is is you know what is the
degree of pervasiveness and strength of
that product five or ten years from now
and I don't think of Apple as a stock I
think it's our third largest business
it's also a high-flying technology
company it's one that's been at the
forefront but you've said in the past
you didn't buy it because it's a
technology company I think it's a
consumer product so in fact I think I've
said this on the program a couple of
years ago I mean it is obviously it's a
consumer product company to use this
technology but we've got a lot of parts
that use technology that Berkshire but
it's an incredible company and and I
should have appreciated it earlier
there's a question that came in from I
guess the handle is GPG this is a
question that came in on Twitter and the
writer asks you've said that you can do
fair value estimates of companies you
follow at any time in your head so
please do one now for Apple what went
wrong with your estimate for IBM and how
is that amiss how is that miscalculation
different than for Apple IBM two
entirely different business than Apple I
mean I Apple does it resemble IBM
anymore Arizona but it resemble C's
can't even way more I mean it is a
incredibly useful
the people that grows more useful as the
number of people I mean it's really
interesting you know they get we call
them smart phones if you go back and
look at the old telephone that was an
incredible useful PI changed my mother's
life and my dad's I changed lives in
every way and they they took a long time
to become pervasive and it was very
expensive initially but it it changed
the world
and the smartphone is part of hundreds
and hundreds of millions of people's
lives in all aspects of their lives it's
used for as all kinds of utility it's a
consumer product
are you a consumer of its products at
this point you've had a lot of fun for
forever ah I am now using not very often
I'm using the latest model and I'll give
you a little preview of our our movie
for the NE we haven't done it yet but
there will probably showing me crushing
with my foot my old phone when did you
get smartphone I've been given several
of them but including by Tim Cook one
finally stuck one finally stuck yeah
yeah absolutely no I I my flip phone is
permanently gone the numbers been
changed by yeah yeah I mean you're
looking at an 89 year old guy that's
barely beginning to be with it what do
you like best about the phone and what
do you like the least
well I don't I don't use all it's for
somebody's like most people I'm in most
people are living their lives around and
I use it as a phone as a phone and no I
don't like it investment bankers talk
about evide which I read translate his
earnings
that was Berkshire Hathaway
vice-chairman Charlie Munger about a
week and a half ago when he was speaking
at the annual shareholders meeting for
his other company The Daily Journal
answering questions giving his usual
straight answers when things come up his
questions a war and that was Charlie
talking about EBIT da Ernie yes calling
them be s earnings although he said it a
little more explicitly you and your
shareholder letter for Berkshire
Hathaway also wrote about how you don't
believe in gap earnings what how do you
guys come about this what do you think
you still have to report these numbers
but you're basically telling
shareholders don't listen to them well
the the yeah it's two different
principles I mean the gap numbers which
show us earning eighty billion which is
more than any company's ever earned in
history aha and we explained why then
that really isn't the relevant statistic
because a lot of that was just the stock
market going up which now gets counted
in our earnings and Charlie was
expressing an opinion we both have a try
Charlie's the shy reticent one but one
of the pair but Charlie is the best
partner anybody could possibly have
we've been partners now for 60 years and
and you could not have a better partner
he at 96 a woman since that meeting
actually in the last couple of weeks a
woman said to him is it to mr. Munger
that you have eight children and
Charlie's reply was so far Charlie
Charlie is very much an active partner
we'll put it that way next time I see
them I'll get an update on that does it
well that's so farst you know we watch
pretty closely charlie shareholder
meeting for the daily journal or we'd
send cameras out we watch it I've been
out myself do you watch that meeting too
to see what is I watched it all on
YouTube after word after word said but
my sister and my good friends and my
niece we're all there and and no I end
up watching it and I actually end up
reading it usually to it I wouldn't
but I don't go out for it was there
anything he said that surprised you this
time around I'm just looking through
some of is actually nothing Charley says
can surprise me is there anything that
enlightened you or changed your opinion
on something maybe something like that
but you I learned from Charley every
time I talk to him Charley he has the
best 30 second mind in the world so I
can go to him with an a new question no
problem any kind and it goes through
about eight filters in his mind in in
ten seconds and he gets to the essence
of any problem
there is nobody better to talk to than
Charley at age 96 is there anything
you've talked to them about recently
that you might be able to share I don't
know if you want to share the
conversations you guys have privately
but anything where you bounce something
off of them any my mom's we we talk
about a lot of things and we talk a lot
of we talk particularly about things we
don't know the answer to and and you
know we find the whole scene so
interesting whether it's politically or
economically of the world I mean it it
it's incredibly interesting to us and
and we're particularly interested in
each other's view although I think I'm
more interested in his views he said my
that would be a correct decision to make
for somebody over here I guess what's
something you guys don't understand
right now oh we do not understand at all
what the outcome will be in a world
where thirteen trillion is being
borrowed at less than zero and even
Greece went on short term I think Greece
the ten-year bond is one percent for
example and and at the same time in this
country we're having under very good
business and market conditions we're
having a four-and-a-half percent federal
deficit and nobody is concerned and at
least and we're talking about massive
new programs and so on everybody talks
about how they'll pay for them but they
really you know the deficits gonna widen
and so we don't know what world comes
out of something where you start with
extremely low interest rates and high
rates of growth and then what you do for
stimulus later on but the whole game I
mean the game always unfolds differently
than you expect and and that's what
makes it so interesting you know the ten
year speaking of these low rates just a
little bit ago hit its lowest yield
since July of 2016 this morning I think
it was one point three seven seven
percent we're back at one point three
nine six percent but ten-year rates
below one point four percent do you have
anticipated it it makes no sense to lend
money at one point four percent to the
US government when it's government
policy to change to have two percent of
your inflation I mean you've got you've
got the government is telling you we're
going to give you one point four percent
and tax you on it and on the other hand
we're going to presumably devalue that
money at two percent a year so these are
very unusual conditions and classical
economics it doesn't appear that you
know what do people do under such
circumstances is everybody buy a
mattress and stick their money under the
mattress or what and it particularly
seems unusual when the world is
generally prosperous and you know but
that's the game is always changing but
it always looks logical in retrospect in
it and it's always looks puzzle again
prospectively but there's always things
to do that make sense to like what well
I hope that's what we're doing it's
buying good businesses at decent prices
whether all of the businesses or parts
of the businesses through the stock
market you know you told me a year and a
half ago maybe longer that when you went
out to try and buy whole businesses
right now it just looks too expensive
which is why you started buying pieces
of companies more stocks but like Apple
is that still the case is it still a
huge premium to try and buy a company
outright there's quite a premium and
part of the premium is because you can
borrow so much money so cheap just so
cheaply in buying those businesses
obviously you can pay more for a
business that you can borrow a very high
percentage of the purchase price and of
the future cash flow committed to it and
you can borrow a little race with with
very little in the way of restrictions
restrictive covenants or anything of the
sort I mean that that's going to
higher prices and the he demand for that
is huge and people look at those race on
the thirty-year the ten-year and they
say to themselves gee I can't live on
that and so they they stretch and buy
poor credits but that's that's just part
of the human cycle overtime and that
that leads to something else and that
leads to something else in the end if
you own good businesses at the right
price you're gonna do fine
you're often quoted as saying that you
don't know who's skinny-dipping until
the tide goes out and who's swimming
naked yeah it goes out maybe you get the
sense with a high tide right now that
there's a lot of skin well we're
certainly doing we're allowing people to
borrow money on much weaker terms than
we were five or ten years ago he
couldn't borrow money at all or from ten
years ago I mean literally you could
Berkshire couldn't borrow money I mean
everything stopped and now we've the
pendulum was swung dramatically and yet
we still have you know we have very very
very alright it's hard to believe that
10 years or 20 years now we will have a
substantial continuation of negative
interest rates but I've already seen
things I didn't think could happen zoom
ahead who knows what could happen that's
what makes it interesting let's get back
out to Omaha where Becky quick is with
Warren Buffett and there's a lot of
important things happening but don't
forget that March Madness is right
around the corner Becky and you should
see what he's doing right now Joe it was
rubbing his hands as I said that now
you're talking his language yeah well
Creighton it was 72 35 at one point and
I had Creighton yesterday I don't know
if you were paying attention to that
that were you watching that at all
Warren Nebraska plays tonight we pay
attention to Creighton out here we
talked about it earlier this morning I'm
thinking I think they're peaking I mean
they're getting better and better
better that the three-point shooting was
I think that one guy was seven four
seven at one point yesterday which is
I'd be like seven for Todd bad for
three-pointers I think anyway get back
to business I just said I'm looking
forward to a warning and I know we
always have our own personal bet if I
get them all right you give me Berkshire
Hathaway which would would be cool for
me I'll tell you if you get if you get
it all the way I'll give you my
Berkshire Hathaway shares all the way to
the 64 against that's we give it to ya
yeah it's how sure he is that you won't
be able to do it Andrew I hear you I
hear you have a question to Andrew I
hope I actually have a couple and I
thought that I read the letter like
everybody else over the weekend it was
fascinated by so many of your comments
Warren specifically I wanted to ask you
you talked about diversity on boards in
this letter and one of the things I
wanted you to weigh in on if you could
is I don't if you saw but David Solomon
the CEO of Goldman Sachs on our air
actually announced a couple of weeks ago
that he won't be taking any companies
public Goldman won't unless they have at
least one diverse board member and we're
likely going to push that to two you
know in the state of California they put
a law into place saying that you needed
to have a female board member and I'm
curious what you think of not just the
the push towards more diversity on
boards but the requirement because I
also note in your letter that you have
very specific thoughts about what it
means to be a board member what it means
to be an independent board member how
wealth is involved in all of that what
are your thoughts well at Berkshire for
decades we've given the three factors in
addition to integrity but for board
membership and and and we want people
who are business savvy we want them do
have a a strong personal interest in in
Berkshire itself and we've
we've got directors who really represent
shareholders basically at Berkshire and
I think they do a great job now that
doesn't mean that they don't think that
we should delight our customers that we
should treat associates well but that we
should be the Abe well in our community
both local and national but but our sure
that our directors represent the
shareholders so Warren just to just to
follow up on it though
what's your thought about both the
requirement that that may be banks and
others investors are going to force
companies to have diverse candidates on
their board laws as I mentioned in
California yeah I actually there there
maybe there's been sent to us a proposal
which unless it's withdrawn will be on
our proxy I can't tell you precisely
what it says but the release of this
issue and we will get our shareholders
view on it I I personally and I watch
shareholders that I want directors that
represent the shareholders even you know
in terms of my estate you know with with
maybe currently 80 billion dollars worth
of shares did you have to fall out to be
I I hope that we have we do have a group
of Directors that I think will be very
conscious of doing the right thing the
reason I ask the question is because the
other point you made which I think is a
very smart one and is often misconstrued
in the corporate governance land is that
an independent director these days isn't
always independent in large part and you
make the point that those that don't
come to the table with some form of
wealth often need the job they need the
money they want the money and therefore
that makes them less independent and the
reason I ask this is one of the things
as we've been trying to get more diverse
candidates on boards more women on
boards as you know there there are there
are fewer CEOs fewer people who have
made enormous amounts of money and
people therefore they can question their
independence it becomes a very tricky
issue and that's what I was hoping you
might weigh in on yeah Andrew I've been
on 21 publicly on the boards of publicly
owned companies
and I've seen them in operation and I
would say that the people that I have
often seen and that's perfectly
understandable I have often seen people
to request classified as independent
directors and they are getting three
hundred thousand dollars a year for a
job that takes them a couple of days
maybe six times a year maybe four times
a year and the company flies them to
their office and it's very enjoyable
than the company's good and and who
wouldn't want a job like that I mean I
it's it's an incredible job and people I
get calls from I get calls from
headhunters I get calls from CEOs and
they ask you know who I think would make
a quote good end quote director and what
they are asking is you know who is not
going to cause too much trouble and
who's going to reflect who their name is
going to reflect credit on the
institution and they are not looking for
somebody that that that I would regard
as really independent and I don't blame
them I mean if if if I had spent my life
being a you know a teacher or whatever
might be I mean my IQ is just as high as
the average or higher than the people on
the boards and all that but on the other
hand I want to get on a board I mean
three hundred thousand bucks a year
would look terrific and you're about to
retire probably in most cases is sixty
five or anything of the sort so to call
them independent is ridiculous
and if you're if you're on one board
like that you want to really go on
another one than me and make six hundred
thousand a year and you are not going to
do things that irritate your present CEO
so and he or she gets a call and says
would this guy make a good director that
the answer is no I hate it it's it's
it's just ridiculous to ignore the
factor of compensation with board
members okay all right let me let me ask
a follow-up question that is similarly
related yeah Warren and that's just
having to do with sustainability all
these issues that are out there guys in
the control room sorry this is not where
I told you I was going but
check vara wrote in a question he said
Larry Fink recently said that our
investment conviction is that
sustainability and climate integrated
portfolios can provide better risk
adjusted returns to investors what's
your view on sustainable investing well
III don't happen to make that decision
when I'm buying stocks in our portfolio
I'm I what their individual policies are
I think they're all pro-social I mean
obviously okay you've got to be in tune
with your society but if you if you
think that I look down at a bunch of
stocks and decide whether to buy Apple
or whether to buy JP Morgan or I am not
I'm not using the factors and and the
delays out okay I want to run through a
series of questions that have been in
these are kind of all over the map so
forgive me will bounce around but these
are questions that came in from viewers
that I thought were good ones
Lucas writes in he said did Justin's son
change your mind on cryptocurrency
anybody who doesn't know Justin's son
bought the dinner or the lunch that you
just had from the last glide Foundation
fundraiser he is actively involved in
Bitcoin after that meeting his PR people
put out some notes saying that you know
you kind of listened the cryptocurrency
and maybe you're a little more in tune
with the idea of Bitcoin now well I
would say this when Justin and four
friends came they'd be a perfectly and
we had a good three and a half hour
dinner and the whole thing was a very
friendly exchange of ideas but crypto
currencies basically have no value and
they don't produce anything so you can
look at your little ledger item for the
next 20 years and it says you've got X
of this crypto currency or that it
doesn't reproduce it doesn't it doesn't
deliver it it can't mail you a check it
can't do anything and what you hope is
that somebody else comes along and pays
you more money for it later on but then
that person's got the problem but in
terms of value no zero so it sounds like
he did not change your present change as
either I I had a very pleasant dinner
and those people were they behaved more
than well and they gave four points
there Justin gave four
point six million collided and that will
buy a lot of meals and provide a lot of
beds for people in San Francisco so I
thank him he gave you some Bitcoin
what's it feel like to be a Bitcoin I
don't have any Bitcoin you don't know no
you don't know a bit cause I know I do
not own what I don't know any
cryptocurrency I never will and you know
in the end I may start a war on currency
you know maybe I can create one and I'll
say there's only gonna be 21 million of
them and you can have a little ledger
sheet from me and everything that says
you have it and and you can have it
after I die and you but you can't do
anything with it except sell it to
somebody else and the interesting thing
of course is that bitcoins been out
there a long time and people talked
about how it would be used in in various
kinds of exchange but none of our
companies are doing business in in
Bitcoin or anything yeah that coin has
been used I think to move around a fair
amount of money illegally so the logical
move from the introduction of Bitcoin is
to go short suitcases because the money
that was taken him suitcases from one
country to another suitcases are
probably fall off in demand I mean that
so you can look at that as the economic
contribution of a Bitcoin to the society
is it alright let's talk about a
question that comes in from rusty Thomas
and he has he's got a question on
baseball he said given Warren's love of
baseball and the contrast between his
deft management of the Solomon brothers
scandal and Major League Baseball's
inexplicable mismanagement of the Astros
sign stealing debacle what advice would
Warren provide MLB Commissioner Manfred
to restore confidence and integrity in
the game yeah well it survived the Black
Sox game 1920 and people will continue
to love baseball but it was one thing to
steal signs if you were on second base
but it's bad baseball we'll get past
this baseball fan where you I mean
you're a huge
baseball family surprised to hear about
yeah I was surprised to hear about it
yeah but then I find out the Bobby
Thompson's home somebody just stole the
sign I think I'll break it or somebody
ate on it so people were gonna in any
games including the stock market game
you know certain number of people cheat
and and generally we have people that
administer things to try and minimize
them the cheating and and I'm sure them
Major League Baseball will address the
problem the Astros players get off
scot-free
oh I'm not gonna make a judgment on that
but Joe Jackson certainly didn't yeah
let me ask you about a question that
came in from several viewers actually
and that's about the ETF's de Mosely
management wrote this version of the
question and news agencies have reported
the Berkshire Hathaway purchased two
ETFs so can you talk about if this
purchase happened and if the purchase
happened who purchased the ETF for
Berkshire Hathaway and how was the
decision made to purchase it yeah it
wasn't me or it wasn't taught or wasn't
ed and yeah it happened in some pension
fund and we have a few pension funds
that aren't actually managed by this but
I all I can tell you is that nobody at
nobody that manages money at Berkshires
buying ETS nor do I see any possibility
that they will another purchase that
came up recently Kroger and Jason
Escamilla writes in was that one of
yours or or lieutenant spec it was one
of the others and you know I know
coverage covers done a good job but it's
in a very tough business I mean when you
have when you have Amazon and Walmart
slugging it out and Costco taking a
special part of it everything it's a
tough business but they've done a good
job and and one of our managers decided
to buy that and then Kraft Heinz this
comes in from David Hall he says mr.
Buffett while Kraft Heinz continues to
whittle down their total debt do you
feel that the current dividend payout is
appropriate or should it be reduced
further to free up more cash flow to
reduce debt more rapidly
I think Krabs
should pay down his death and that
should but I think under present
circumstances it appears that it
conveyed the dividend and pay down debt
at a reasonable rate and it has too much
debt but it doesn't have some it doesn't
have debt it can't pay down and this the
debt holders are gonna get the interest
and then the debt should come down year
by year and I think it will and I think
it can with the president dividend but
who knows for sure in the future you
know feel those rights in a similar
question and says do you still believe
in the company and management it's still
a great business in the sense that it
earns will say five billion dollars
after depreciation pre taxing on seven
billion of tangible assets that uses
about seven billion of fixed assets it
doesn't know that working out well I
mean the it's a very valuable business
but we paid too much for a furniture
craft and we we took on more debt than
that and but we paid too much
another question comes in from Bo again
on Kraft Heinz and this person writes in
private labels have performed very well
against brands like Kraft Heinz but they
haven't made a dent against other brands
like coca-cola or C's why do you think
that is and how do you think about
brands modes given your experience with
Kraft brands are always going to be in a
fight with the retailer and it varies by
country enormous Lee it varies by
product category if people I worked in a
grocery store in 1941 Charlie worked
with say one in 1940 people would call
him they'd ask for a can of peas and I'd
write down a can of peas they called it
and they'd it asked for Heinz ketchup
and I better get it given mine's ketchup
they didn't care which brand the peas
were they didn't care that much whether
the two quarts of milk we said I'm worth
this brand or that brand but they cared
whether but it was it was it was Heinz
ketchup that was it
you know 1941 some brands are terribly
strong you can't bring out a private
label : do very well with it and people
have tried for a long long time on the
other hand
you can bring up private labels and lots
of products and and they saw very well
and you know you take Costco with their
own Kirkland label I mean that that like
will grows dramatically it cuts across
categories it it you know it it's done
since 1992 or whatever was introduced to
what other people spend out of years you
know with huge amounts of advertising
and special display all kinds of things
so the battle goes on I would say that
the retailer has gained ground against
brands to some degree but brands are
still terribly important I mean that try
and give me a ten billion dollar budget
and ask me to bring out another called
Co love it makes a dent in coca-cola and
I can't do it one of the questions that
did come in it was something that you
wrote about in the annual letter was the
role that Gregg and Ajit play Gregg able
AG Jane the two vice chairman who were
recently added as vice chairman the role
that they're going to be playing in the
annual meeting with shareholders you
said that they will play a larger role
in the shareholder meeting how will that
work well it will mean that any
shareholder or any of the journalists
there who are presenting questions from
shareholders have been sent to them can
direct those questions to either a gene
or to Gregg so if they were insurance
questions they might want a direct
analogy not insurance questions to Gregg
but they will be there and will have 60
years old questions we don't know what
they're gonna be and and if anybody says
I would like Gregg dancer this or I
would like Ajit answer this then they're
right there
adjacent to listen they'll be sitting on
stage with you and Charlie well yeah
there's nobody sitting in front of the
crowd there's two different levels and
tiers there again you said you did this
because you've gotten a lot of questions
from directors shareholders other people
who had kind of advised you that they
thought it was good for them to be
playing a bigger role well everybody I
heard from quite a few more people not
we directed questions out to them where
they were sitting with the directors out
in front then the spotlight went down
but this may encourage more questions
directly of them and that'll be terrific
okay Jim Beam writes in a question he
says in the past both you and Bill Gates
have stated that half of the board
meetings are spent
discussing succession how has this
changed since Ajit and Gregg are on the
board do they leave the room they leave
the room but if I die tonight the board
tomorrow morning knows exactly what
they're gonna do I hope they're polite
about it let the body cool off basically
they know what they're gonna do and the
interesting thing about it is we own a
you know the Apple and JP more than all
those things I don't know who's gonna
succeed the CEOs of of any of the
companies I think that we own stock but
we're well prepared for accept
succession calm is going to be
embarrassing how well alright let's get
to a few more share holder questions
chip crook writes in a note and says it
was reported that Boeing was looking for
a large cash loan were you ever
approached about Berkshire loaning the
money
kind of like the goldman sachs deal from
yours exact steal from you don't know I
think I think Boeing's raised about
thirteen billion but that's Bank type
money in other words I my memory is it's
maybe 1% male that they're looking for
they're looking for traditional bank
loans and we don't make traditional bank
loans you also talked in the letter
about how Berkshire Hathaway has
Berkshire Hathaway energy I should say
has the ability and the talent to manage
big investments a hundred billion
dollars and more I think you wrote we
stand ready and willing and able on such
opportunities California governor Gavin
Newsom asked you at one point to bid on
PG&E is that such an opportunity PG&E
we obviously I mean we work with them
for decades have been familiar with them
but but that doesn't that doesn't fit
Berkshire but if there were a hundred
billion of transmission lines or
whatever it might be
Berger could do it I mean and we would
love it that happens to be a very tough
thing to do cuz across all these states
and everybody does not in my backyard
and all that but but there can be huge
intelligent investment may than the
utility energy area and no one is better
equipped to do it than Berkshire and
both talent and resources why does PG&E
not fit that bill it's too tough I don't
know the
to it I mean that rearranging that
utility and I think I know governor
Newsom I think he's a very very very
smart guy and and in terms of solving
this problem it's just not easy you've
got so many constituencies and they're
at each other's throats and there's lots
of money involved and I don't want to be
the guy I don't know how to solve all
that okay let's go on to a question that
is posed by Ken Ducey he says you sold
31 newspapers after buying them over 40
years as a self-described newspaper
addict you said recently that most
newspapers were toast I know that's not
exactly that's not true this isn't his
question you can answer that yeah do you
believe the problem with local
newspapers is a lack of demand or a lack
of innovation and a new business model
well bomb is that well getting back to
the toast comment Andy serwer actually
as a fellow since he was interviewing me
and I repeated it but the the problem is
and even everyday the circulation of the
papers in every every sprint print
circulation goes down and the
interesting thing about it of course is
that the three survivors so far that
look promising online of the New York
Times in The Wall Street Journal and The
Washington Post all three of those
papers sold their smaller papers the New
York Times sold I think 11 papers about
seven or eight years ago the Dow Jones
which owned the Wall Street Journal and
that was owned by News Corp they sold
the Ottawa newspapers eight papers
Washington Post sold the upper hair on
so they all saw the handwriting on the
wall before I did and they all sold
their papers that was their reaction
they did not they did not try and figure
out the online solutions they they got
out of them and unfortunately I bought
some and we're still and I mean we are
financing Lee and we think Lee has by
far the best opportunity to continue
print as long as anybody and to find an
online solution for these papers so we
put new money into the newspaper
industry here or we've committed to do a
little close in a month or two and then
finally very quickly we are in the
Berkshire Hathaway's headquarters
building here in Omaha Strom writes in a
question and says why did you decide to
rent you're off
for all these years instead of buying
the building or building your own office
building well we only use 1/4 of the 15
floors here but we haven't signed a
lease for the next 20 years on one more
floor so it shows just how flexible are
thinking is about the future we don't
want a big headquarters office if we had
a big headquarters office and we'd fill
it believe me I mean if we had 15 floors
of our own we'd have 15 floors worth of
people warned before we let you go let's
just go back to the futures again this
morning because right now the Dow is
indicated to open down about a hundred
or 830 points weakness again on concerns
about coronavirus and what that means
what's your mentality today as you kind
of go out and look at stock market and
decide what you're going to do we're
buying businesses down for 20 or 30
years we buy them at Whole we bought
them in part they're called stocks when
we buy them in part and we think the 20
and 30 year outlook has not changed by
coronavirus Warren want to thank you for
your time today we really appreciate it
your generosity with your time and we
hope to see you again soon come every
year
you